Today we decided to do a trade, so we left Brian back in the office and we picked up Jenny. Can I have a couple of people who know Jenny? So Jenny is actually one of our new people in the office. New in the sense that she's been here before and bounced back around because she loved it so much. So she's now part of the new receipt team as well. So we thought we'd just bring her along. We're collecting people like Pokemon for reference. And she's collecting all the good ones. So to start things off...Just give ourselves a second just to be able to centre ourselves, taking a couple of big deep breaths from what's probably been a very busy day for everyone, especially with the warmer weather as well. And together we'll join in prayer. So in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, Amen. Heavenly Father, thank you for your guidance in us, teaching us to see, to develop a deeper understanding. for my language, for that of others, and that we may use it to better understand and serve our planet. Grant us the wisdom to abide by the practical principles of integrity, ability to recognize and numerical analysis, and help us to make informed decisions. And I concede that we have received the words of peace, service to your will, and may our efforts bring about a world more closely aligned with your divine plan. Amen. Amen to that.And as we gather today, we are in the season of Canberra, so this is a time where our Christmas tree, Australian Christmas tree, is coming out, so we've got more Australian flowers coming out, like kangaroo paws, that are supposed to be well adapted, but somehow I managed to kill them every time, and I do not understand how. But as we gather today, we'd like to acknowledge the Whadjuk people of the Noongar Nation, but they're the custodians of this land that we meet on, and they hold the tradition.of this country for thousands of years. We wish to acknowledge the strength and riches of their continuing culture, as they are one of the living oldest cultures in the world. And we pay our respects today to anyone, to our elders past, present, and future. And we extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders that may be here today. So our learning intentions today is that we are going to undertake an analysis of Iwopat data from this year. So.we want to support our belief in our students, engage our students through this, build a culture of success with our students and work together to continue growing. So our success criteria is that we understand how to navigate the Path Explorer application and now that it is adaptive, we'll find our way around that. I know some of you are probably very familiar with the new space, but it's always great just to go over that again. We understand that our students' current progress should change that.now into numeracy using the band report. So today we're going to delve into our band reports and we're going to look in the space of numeracy today. We can begin to differentiate our teaching and learning using this data and we will come back in another session to look at item performance. So essentially the reason why we go through and look at data and Ryan last time when he last week and you're looking at yourplain data, he would have talked to you about how with our data, we use it to tell a story. So if we think about our students that come to the classroom, they come already with a story, but sometimes the story is told to us in numbers, or it's told to us in a different format. So what we have to look at is, well, what is that sweet spot that we're finding to be able to listen to every child's story that comes through the door? So thinking about what they bring in from their home, what data we collect on them at a system or at a school level.level, but then how we can use that to be able to engage them, explain what might be happening and to enlighten ourselves with our teaching as well. So when we look at data, what we're moving away from is our data being what drives us to informing us. So data-driven is validating the decision made based upon only the data captured, whereas informed, we're gathering and interpreting the data, looking for that contextual and innovative decision.decision making, and we're looking at it from both what's called qualitative and quantitative perspective, and it's being able to look at both parts, so being able to look at the numbers as well as the story. So what underpins these principles is that what we have to remember is that when it comes to pack testing, this is one test on one particular day. So we know, just like for us, if we come to...school and we've had an off morning already, it shapes our day quite well. So when we look at these numbers, they should help to lead us to be able to make decisions, but these decisions should lead to an understanding of the student's story. So progressive achievement. So PAT provides objective information to teachers about their students' skills and understanding in a range of key domains.So, theories that underpin PAT is that it is a developmental approach to learning and we want to have a broad mindset. So, we want to use this information to inform our teaching and to see, you know, what successes there are with our students, but also what do we need to further develop. So, before we move on, what insights are provided in our PAT data? Do theyDoes anyone want to ... Oh, sorry. All right. What insights? Before, if anyone had a peak, great, you might like to share, but maybe have a chat with the people around you. What insights provided in our PAP data? Chat. Don't ... Transcription provided by Transcription Outsourcing, LLC.I think it's a good thing. It's our new city, our fair market. So it's just got, we've got, we've got the University is one of our venues, that's a city. Reading is one of them. Because I'm not high school, so I don't think that's something I'd bet on. Yeah, it must be worth it. But, it's a good thing. Yeah, yeah. The main thing is, and then I like the sign. We've got people who said, it's a good thing. It is. It's a good thing. It has to be.data, so what insights are provided in ourSo I might go around to each group and maybe you can share one idea. And if your idea is the same as another group, that's fine. So it's group here, any ideas? We're talking about how you can see how each individual student performs based on the strand. Based on the questions. Student performance. Yeah. Good. Ladies down the back. Problem solving. Problem solving. I'm saying it gives you an idea of where to go next.Yeah, definitely. It gives you some ideas of what you need to focus on. And that progress as well, looking at from last year to this year as well. Definitely. It's nice to see that growth in our students and know that we have made a difference. I think sometimes you get to this point in the year and you almost forget all that learning that's happened and that there has been so much happening for them in that year. And it's wonderful to see.about progress. Lisa's group? Oh, I think we talked about differentiation, so saying what they can do and clumping them together so you can differentiate your teaching and learning to meet the needs of the students. Definitely. So definitely meeting those needs through looking at the data. And final group. Do they sit in the cohort levels? So like where they sit, where they fall, where they... And today with the band reports, we're going to see that. What band do they fall in in this progressive achievement test? So...So even though, sorry, this is talking about student data, how could you use PAP data to provide insight about your teaching? I already had this discussion here, so they can't answer. How could you use the PAP data collected as insight for your teaching? Same with those gaps. So has it gone particularly strange? Yeah. We know that we need to go over what we've learned again. Yeah.So, particular areas of need. So, if we've gone through the framework with you, we think that instructional range, the very first one, is the teacher as the learner, and as the learner, that's how you upskill yourself. So, you could actually use this starter to be able to go, oh, actually, when I'm teaching, I'm actually missing out a lot on capacity and volume, because you know there's a lot of other things that you need to be able to cover up.So then you can actually use it to, look, it's all right, I'm going to do this slowly. So then it can be looked at from a teacher perspective to be able to work out, okay, what do I need to do to upskill myself? What am I doing really well as a teacher? But where do I need to be able to upskill myself as well? Is there a common theme throughout school I'd be saying doing it at the end of the year beneficially.Yeah, it's for you, but then you're getting out of it, and how you can inform, but then you've only got them for another five weeks. But what about next year? Wouldn't it inform your prospects? They won't be teaching them. No, no. But you'd be teaching, say you're teaching the same year group next year. Yeah. Yeah. So let's say, perfect world, you're teaching the same year group next year. Yeah. That then gives you the chance to be able to view your programs and go, okay, well, I might actually be teaching these areas as well.or what can I do to upskill myself in that area? So it's more thinking about that or is it, I mean, I'm just a bit of a junior primary. So I find that a lot of the kids are just click-happy, so they're not actually... In upper primary, they're click-happy as well. Yeah. Because life hasn't taken care of it. How accurate is the data that you're supposed to be like, but that's not informing what you're teaching or how your kids are, like... But then that's when you start looking at it as the whole story, because you don't remember this is one test on one day. So can that child...We can use Alicia. Can Alicia actually prove to me on other days that she understands place value? Yeah, can Alicia prove to me in other instances that she can actually problem-solve? Yeah. And when you look at the data, you can actually see patterns because there's different ones that Alicia, Jenny and myself have looked at. We've gone, yeah, the child's gone click-happy and you can always tell, or they've come to a point where they've gone, carry more, I'm just going to select whatever. Yeah, and you can pick it.be the same in that plan though, and that's where you have to look at the child as I think their whole learning, the opportunities for them to do online kind of tests as well, so that then the kids don't go click, click, click, that they have their own average ones and options and such. So it is that one piece of data that we like to triangulate and to see their progress over time as well, but if you see it is also progressive achievements.look at the skills, which we'll look at in the VANS today, and see what skills they have and where they can go. Yeah. And because the students who are interested in online content format, if you look at the style of the VANS, you'd be arguing that the data is valid then because you haven't taught content. That's just me nagging people. So when they worked out the assessment plan, so we have the MAI is designed with adiagnostic assessments at the beginning of the year, so that can inform our teaching. PATH is designed as something that is more of a, it's not quite a summative, it's a point in time. And so that shows from the end of the year, so it gives you a really good idea of your teaching as the achievement of the children determined, but definitely having sat through quite a number now of helping out for a few months, bringing it out and doing it.with them, reading out every single maths question and then our vulnerable kids sitting with them, any of the kids who are in Q2 and you're one by one or I've been sitting there between a couple of kids reading it and then watching them go, something that's definitely come out in our early childhood is to think with our 1s and our 2s is to give them multiple opportunities where they can understand how a multi-choice test works and how they have to make good decisions about it.And that's something in all of the schools that I've been working with lately, we've had to go, oh, we need to look at this. And CESAW's got some great, the frames, the assessment things, and so on. So we've been talking about how we build those in. Because yeah, taking a test is a whole other thing for year ones and twos. That, particularly the ones, I've never done before. So they just, I was sitting there the other day and he was going, yep, and I said, do you want to have another look at it? And he goes, no. And I was like, what the hell? And he went, yeah. On the next, so by the time, you know how they do the little.black things. And he was like, there's more. He goes, right. And those last five, he didn't number them. He didn't hear what I said. So yeah, definitely look at it from that point of view that it's not an indication of what you haven't done. Look at it as that group of children as a cohort, how are they going? What are the things that we know they can do well? What are the things that we go, oh, okay, we didn't even think about covering that in that way? Yeah. And so on.So, we have individuals, small groups, full school, areas of strengths, gaps, we've had a lot of these words, impact on pedagogies and practices, tracking progress, cohorts, future focus, non-references, award and recognition, PL priorities, itemised performance, classroom practice and resources. We're going to talk about translating a style.Alicia and I can really speak to this because earlier on this year we had to go from Bunbury through to Meriden and one of the maps that we used wanted us to go back to Perth and we're like, no that's the reason why we stayed in Bunbury because we bumped into Donnybrook. And so luckily the car maps were saying no no just go back to Perth and then drive across to Meriden, we're like no. Luckily I had Google to, I think Apple Maps or Google, gave me a better answer. I also just signed, heading and driving.direction that I thought was right and hoped that the maps would readjust, and it did. We went down a few narrow roads, but we got there. We got there in quick time and got out of it. We think about our data and what we're collecting. We're collecting data at the system level. So that's things like our NAPAN plan, early years and our religion assessment. But then we didn't know...as well, you're going through and collecting data at a school level and at the classroom level. So they are things like your notes that you're taking on your students, thinking about your formative and summative assessments, even things like your climate survey data that then goes out to students and parents as well. But then also being able to speak to other schools and thinking about what sources are they using and would they be applicable to help here? Would it be, then, too much information?or not enough information to be able to help with it. And what we've got to remember is that when we're looking at this data, we're looking for ways that can provide evidence of achievement, growth, behavior, might be attendance, engagement, and motivation as well. Sure, what Brian's done with these slides.So when we think about our informed practices, we look at ways that we can use our data effectively so that we are hitting our student wellbeing. So it's making sure that we are targeting our lessons to where the students are and their point of need, but then we need to be able to use our data to work out what's those next steps within our class. And then looking at as a whole class, how are we tracking? Are there particular students that may be pulling a cohort up? Are there particular students that could be pulling a cohort?down, because that's what happens with data. And then we're looking at how do our practices actually impact on our data? And that's something we've been on that journey already this year with Ryan in regards to pedagogical practices and how we can change them and the impacts that can have on our data as well. So, obviously, we have our planning guide, which is a cycle. So we've gotI'm just going to review goals, gather data, undertake the analysis, discern and then monitor and collate. So we're working through this cycle. Now we are obviously looking at our BANs today, so BAN summaries describe skills. So we're looking at the skills today that characterise performance. It is not a skill checklist, nor it is prescriptive. BAN summaries include indicators of a range of skills.as a student is performing within that band would be expected to have mastered. So students in each band are operating at approximately the same achievement level within a learning area, regardless of their school year level. And we can see when we're looking at our data, we can see where our students are falling within our school. There's not one person that might be, well, below on a band. We kind of see a pattern happening. Viewing student achievement in terms of achievement bands may assist teachers to bridge students of similar abilities.referencing the PAP achievement band descriptors, we can understand the skills typical of understanding according to their PAP band. So basically, we can see where our students are. And I'll be aware that some of you would have already looked at this once you have tested to see where your students are, if there are any surprises, or if everyone falls into where you think they would fall. And a lot of the time I know when I've looked at band summaries when I've had classes, you know, most of the time I can see where everyone is.sometimes there are those surprise students where they might not have performed as well at that point in time, or where ones that have actually performed exceptionally and really surprised me with their growth. So if you aren't already there, we would like you to first log in to your account, and then once you're in there, select test master.Yeah, and then to your bed. And reaching for a pin, that's it, everything's good. Good luck. Thanks again and take care.I'm going to show you how to do that, so there we go, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 71, 72, 72, 73, 74, 75, 78, 79, 80, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81, 81,and how we bring the life of a deaf person to the deaf community. All of us in one place, deaf, or hearing, or speaking, can find a way to make a difference in this person's life. I think for myself, it's about making a difference for me. I see. I don't want to be a discriminator. I don't want to be a discriminator. I don't want to be a leader. I want to be a leader. I want to be a leader.and who cares about it? And in what way? And... We... We... We... We... We... We... We... We... We... We... We... We...11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 31. 32. 33. 33. 33. 34. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49. 50. 51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. 56. 57. 58. 59. 59. 59.and doctors are going to come in and tell you how to do it. They're going to tell you how to do it. They're going to tell you how to do it, and they're going to tell you how to do it.Up on the screen, this is actually what your whole school data pool at Max looks like. So this is your whole pool, so this is everyone that has made a attempt in the last few weeks. So if you have a look at this data, what sort of story could this data tell you? Which makes it sound a bit crazy, but if you look at data, data tells a story. What could we get from your whole school data?This is your hardest school. Belcourt? Yeah, it's a very defined Belcourt, isn't it? Which is a good part. Yep. What else? That's actually the... Pardon? That's what we think it would look like. Yeah. Yeah. Having a quick look, so I think it's, maybe it's the Year 3s, they don't actually have a defined Belcourt. There's looks like you've said steps that have collapsed a little bit. I have!I can't sleep. Really? Yeah. Oh, there was someone else. Yeah. Okay. That's it. Yes. I'm out of luck. Oh. No, good luck out there. That'll be one. Yeah. So for the most new groups, are you happy for me to tag a particular new group? There are. Group. So think about, this is your whole school. This is what year one garden looks like. I can't sleep. I can't sleep. Did you go to school? This is all you'll need, $2. This is all you'll need, $3. Yes, it's combined, it will be like that. This is all you'll need, $4. Well, you know what, there's bamboo and it's hot, I'm going to make a dart again.It is. You find and unfit. So I'm just going to leave it on this one for a second. When you actually go into a particular band, so if I click on this band, right at the top, like it plots out students and where they've landed, but at the top we have descriptions, and in here it actually gives a description about what students should be able to achieve within that band. So on your desk...at the moment, you have a sheet, which is a reflection sheet. Having a look at your data, think about what are some of the successes that have come through with your path up at the moment. Are there any surprises? What could you hypothesise? So just the top three boxes on the sheet. So just come up with a couple of ideas that you could put in. You may need to have your band descriptive. You've got to get a bit of an idea aboutwhat she potentially can and can't do in that area. So we've got a list of the value, and yes, that can be one part of it. So the way it works, if she finds out that we went from 60, then we can move to a different value. Yeah, then we can move to a different value. And then she can get access to it. Okay, thank you. Sorry, can you repeat the question? No, actually, you can start. I'm going to repeat it from the beginning. Thank you.Basically, I can see the prostitute, and I can see the shimmy. I can see the shimmy, and I can see the shimmy. And I can see the shimmy. So I can see the shimmy. Shots of shimmy. I can see the shimmy. I can see the shimmy. Well, I don't know. I'm very bad at this. What? I'm not good at it. I'm really bad at it. I'm really bad at it.But none of these changes now, so I'm especially worried about how we're going to get out of this situation without providing them with the resources that they need. And how they will be able to get out of it. At the same time, they're more of a family member than they are a disability. When you give us this information, every time I get asked that, I feel like I'm going to be in for a lot of pity. I'll never get it. I feel like I'm going to be in for a lot of pity. And that's what we need. I'll never get it. People are going to be mad at me for it.I'm sure it is. Okay, well cheers. It is really nice to have you here. At least I'm glad I got to ask you a few questions, because we wouldn't have got here if it wasn't for you. Well, there's a picture of me. No, it is beautiful. I'm really excited to be here. Oh, there's the stairs. Yeah. Wow. Thank you. Thank you for having me. You too, mate. I'm excited to be with you. I think you're going to be amazing. I'm nervous about the stairs. Me too. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do it. I don't know. It might be my fault. I don't think I'm going to be able to do it. I think I'm going to get too nervous. That's cool. Yeah, I like it.because people can follow me on Instagram and that's amazing, I really like that. Is there any way of developing that? I'm thinking about it, sorry, but we've got some bad guys in here. Keep it, or not, or no, that's fine. Just register so we can change the ending. If I let you. Thank you for watching.Railroad is a really, really unpopular question because I don't know any deaf people untill now. I'm actually really afraid to leave this room, it feels so uncomfortable to me. It feels like this video is really familiar with me. I know this because last week we came and asked if deaf people really wanted to go as a deaf couple,It's not just in Japan, it's all over the world. So I know they haven't even thrown me out yet. They're the ones who get it. So it's acceptable that I don't have a job in this country, but I don't have a job in the United States. Yes, you do. But they're giving me a job in the U.S. I know. They can't just give you a job in the U.S. I'm sorry. Well, actually, they couldn't prove I didn't have a job in the U.S. So I was given a job in the U.S. But I'm not going to make that decision. I'm not going to blab about it. I'm not going to say anything about it. I'm not going to say anything about it.to whom I would rather be inclusive. Instead, even like that, even like that, like that, I could say in English. Sometimes I just talk up her hair. Or sometimes when they have like an umpatt shape, and it's really awkward when people are doing that, she's in the right spot, I need to get my arms closer, any more further than that,and your name needs to be in that thing. The second step of the search is to check that you've got a 21 and you've just got a number one second. So I can see the one when you claim your name. Yeah. You might need to slow it down a bit so I can get seated. This is just an annotation. Do you have anything to add? Yes, thank you. I'll take a few minutes of your time. Alright, thank you. I've been up here a little bit. I can't hear exactly what you're saying. Thank you so much.This was me going through the UK to so many countries. We even did a uploading to Google. I love you, don't take me home. I am incredibly very happy with you. Should we do a meeting, or start dating? Should we confirm our love abroad?I was in high school, then I met a deaf fellow in India who was wonderful. So he goes back to India and there, back to China from there, but my family is so lucky in New Zealand. So I went to India and I got to meet a deaf person, and he was just wonderful. So I went to India. It's a lovely country. And he was there and I met him. That's how we met. So he said hi. And that's how I met him.We've been touching without actually seeing each other. We've made it close enough. Now we have to stop.Now, it might be a bit of an exercise for you to kind of stand up so that you'll be back on your feet, and then you might be responding or something like that. We can all do this. I think I'm going to be waiting to get you ready to do this, so I'm going to give you a one-back to do this, right? Because I'm going to be standing up, so I'm going to give you a pressure on your butt. Maybe a contraction, so that you will begin to find that you can get up and perhaps moveIn fact, I don't know if you can see it, but I've got it on the wrong side. So, again, we're going to have to allow it. You know exactly what I mean. Oh, I don't think I've got it on the right side. Yeah, you didn't. Well, I think I've got it on the wrong side. I don't think I've got it on the right side. Oh yeah, it's there. I think I've got it on the right side. It's this way. It's this way. I don't think I've got it on the right side.That's what we call being in a flawed mix of children. Yes, now it's the time. I'm like, oh, that's the time already. Would anyone like to share, just real quickly, what are some surprises that may have come through your data? Was there a particular student? Isaac Dane. Yeah. What surprised you about Isaac? I wouldn't know. He actually did really well. Sidranich, he's one of my very mixed of flawed children. Yeah. And is he not in the ending program? He's in the ending program.He's in every support program since I was a child. And he obviously had a really good day. My narrating to him was obviously really good. And I talked him around and he did really well. I think that was your result. Just read the questions beautifully, obviously. That's a team effort. That's a team effort. Perfect. So I'm celebrating that he wasn't in practice. Yeah.I think I'm a bit, I'm actually a little bit surprised at my results, I thought they'd maybe, they'd be a bit, a little bit higher than what they were, and there was definitely some weaker ones, like weaker results, and they're not weak students, so that's, I wouldn't say it's alarming, but I don't know, maybe, like you said, it's one day, one test, so maybe I'm having a good day, but yeah, some results are a little, yeah, they're very strong in the class, but. And when we come back in two weeks, whether it's us.three, next week, a collection of us three, two of us, it could be right, I'm not 100% sure. When we actually start delving into the data, like for these couple of students that you're thinking about, when you actually then start looking at the question, is it actually the way the question is worded? Is it that in class, if it's in a standard format, they could actually do it. But because the context has been changed slightly.it's thrown them out. So there's one question that pops up which is which set of numbers skip counts by 100? First one is 100, 101, 111, 121. The second one goes like 800, 900, 1000, 1100. And there's a couple of other variations. The amount of students that look at it and will either skip count by once or by 10.and not actually be looking at the digit in the hundreds column. Or they've looked at it and gone Oh, there's a hundred in the first one. Therefore it's that answer. Because if we skip count, where do we start from? Zero. Alright guys, we're going to skip count by twos. Two, four, six, eight. Alright now let's start from ten and let's go backwards. Eight, six, four, two, zero, minus two, one. But we don't always look forit in a non-standard way, as Jenny calls it. And that's when that out-of-the-box thinking has to come into play as well. So yeah, next week when we come in and you start looking at those questions, you'll be like, yeah. Any other surprises? Any other celebrations? Well, I went a little bit deeper.and all of my students had some sort of growth within them. I think growth is growth. Doesn't matter if it's one point, it's 100 points. Growth is growth. From last year. Yeah. So I just wanted to have a big look and everyone made new ones. Yes. That's a good celebration. Yeah. Anything else you want to add? Deep, deep, and.So my kitten, or one kitten, came up to six. Now six butterflies are on the stage. How can a dog be dead? I don't know. I didn't hear a dog move, yeah. Yeah, sometimes when you start looking and digging a bit deeper, it's almost like... Yeah, it's got that. Yeah, I'm worried. It's going the other way. Yeah, probably going the wrong way. I should just put a band-aid on. Just walk away. How long? Almost a week.So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for having us out. We realise that in Week 4, data is a hard thing. It does actually help to tell a really good story. If we think of data as a language, it can actually give a similar good story. So next week, when a collection of us will be here, we will go through and actually start pulling apart this data a little bit more and looking at individual students. But if you want to have a play around between now and next week, do that.questions for Ryan at the next meeting. Thank you.